docs: add venus-cluster en 03 doc (#313)
ipfs-force-community/venus-cluster: docs/en/03.venus-worker-config.md

# Configurations of venus-worker

venus-worker is the main execution body of data sealing. Let's take a look at its configuration file structure and configuration options.

The configuration file of `venus-worker` is in `toml` format. It should be noted that in this format, lines starting with `#` will be regarded as comments and will not take effect.

Taking a mock instance as an example, a basic configuration might look like this:

````toml
[worker]
# name = "worker-#1"
# rpc_server.host = "192.168.1.100"
# rpc_server.port = 17891

[sector_manager]
rpc_client.addr = "/ip4/127.0.0.1/tcp/1789"
# rpc_client.headers = { User-Agent = "jsonrpc-core-client" }
# piece_token = "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJuYW1lIjoiMS0xMjUiLCJwZXJtIjoic2lnbiIsImV4dCI6IiJ9.JenwgK0JZcxFDin3cyhBUN41VXNvYw-_0UUT2ZOohM0"

> [sealing]

Author: 确实，不小心用了老板的。。

# rpc service listening port, optional, number type
# Default is 17890
# rpc_server.port = 17891
````

In most cases, each field in this configuration item does not need to be manually configured.

Only in some special cases, such as:

- If you would like to name each `venus-worker` instance according to your own naming schemes
- If you don't want to monitor all network card IPs and only allow local rpc requests
- If multiple `venus-workers` are deployed on one machine, you would like to avoid port conflicts so that they are distinguished

And in other scenarios, you would need to manually configure the options here as needed.

## [sector_manager]

`sector_manager` is used to configure `venus-sector-manager` related information so that `venus-worker` can connect to the corresponding service correctly.

### Basic configuration example

````toml
[sector_manager]
# The connection address used when constructing the rpc client, required, string type
# Accepts both `multiaddr` format and url format such as `http://127.0.0.1:1789`, `ws://127.0.0.1:1789`
# Normally, use the `multiaddr` format for consistency with other components
rpc_client.addr = "/ip4/127.0.0.1/tcp/1789"

> # The http header information, optional items, dictionary type used when constructing the rpc client

Author: 对，大意了。

# Default is false
# Usually only set this during testing
# ignore_proof_check = false
````

The configuration items in `sealing` usually have default items preset from experiences, which removes the need for manual configurations in most cases.

### Special configuration example

#### 1. Test network, serving only specific `SP`

````toml
allowed_miners = [2234, 2236, 2238]
````

#### 2. Large-scale clusters to reduce network usage

````toml
# Among the recoverable exceptions, a considerable part is caused by network jitter, increase the interval of automatic recovery and reduce the frequency of requests
recover_interval = "90s"

# Increases the interval time to reduces the request frequency
rpc_polling_interval = "300s"
````

#### 3. Increase the possibility of self-recovery from errors during sealing tasks

````toml
# Increase the number of autorecovery attempts
max_retries = 10

# Increase the auto-recovery interval
recover_interval = "60s"
````

##[[sealing_thread]]

Each `sealing_thread` is used to configure a worker thread for a sector. Multiple `sealing_thread` configuration groups can exist in one configuration file.

### Basic configuration example

````toml

> [[sealing_thread]]

Reviewer: 感觉这个配置段里的 `工作线程` 翻译为 `sealing_thread` 而不是 `worker thread` 更加合理。不过这个值得推敲

Author: 好像确实有道理，感觉`worker`的话，确实对全新的外部用户理解上比较方便？

Author: 如果以后改动的话，老的建议也保留。保持兼容性。

- The naming, type and effect of configurable items are consistent with the common `sealing` items
- Only applies to the current worker thread
- When not configured use the value in the common `sealing` item

### Special configuration example

#### 1. Two worker threads, each serving a different `SP`

````toml
[[sealing_thread]]
location = "/mnt/nvme2/store"
sealing.allowed_miners = [1357]

[[sealing_thread]]
location = "/mnt/nvme3/store"
sealing.allowed_miners = [2468]
````

#### 2. Two worker threads, each with different sector sizes

````toml
[[sealing_thread]]
location = "/mnt/nvme2/store"
sealing.allowed_sizes = ["32GiB"]

[[sealing_thread]]
location = "/mnt/nvme3/store"
sealing.allowed_sizes = ["64GiB"]
````

## [remote_store] depreciated

`remote_store` is used to configure where the completed sector persistent data is saved.

### Basic configuration example

````toml
[remote_store]
# name, optional, string type
# The default is the absolute path corresponding to the path
# name = "remote-store1"

# path, required, string type
# It is recommended to fill in the absolute path directly
location = "/mnt/remote/10.0.0.14/store"

````

> Due to the need to coordinate storage location information between `venus-worker` and `venus-sector-manager`, in many cases the same persistent storage directory is on the `venus-worker` machine and the `venus-sector-manager` The mount paths on the machines are not exactly the same, so we decided to use `name` as the basis for coordination.

Reviewer: 倒数第二句话好像有点问题

Author: 确实不通顺。

You can also choose not to configure `name` on both sides of `venus-worker` and `venus-sector-manager` during configuration if the mount path of the persistent storage directory is the same on all machines. In this case, both will use the absolute path as the `name`, which will also match.

## [attached_selection]
`attached_selection` is used to configure the location where the persistent data of the sealed sector is saved

### Basic configuration example
````toml

> [attached_selection]

Reviewer: 这个配置段不是最新的

You can also choose not to configure `name` on both sides of `venus-worker` and `venus-sector-manager` during configuration if the mount path of the persistent storage directory is the same on all machines. In this case, both will use the absolute path as the `name`.

## [processors]

`processors` is used to configure sealing task executors, and some other information during sealing.

This configuration item is actually divided into three sub-items, and we shall analyze them one by one.

### [processors.limit] is depreciated and renamed to [processors.limitation.concurrent]

When both `[processors.limit]` and `[processors.limitation.concurrent]` exist in the configuration file, the latter shall override.

`processors.limitation.concurrent` is used to configure the number of parallel tasks for a specific sealing task. This is to reduce the contention of hardware resources at one given  sealing stage.

> It should be noted that when external executors are configured, the number of external executors and the total allowed concurrency will also affect the number of parallel tasks.

Author: 有道理。👍

When a static file path is configured for the corresponding sector size, this file will be used directly as the tree_d file for `cc sector` without trying to generate it again.

#### Basic configuration example

````toml
[processors.static_tree_d]
2KiB = "/var/tmp/2k/sc-02-data-tree-d.dat"
32GiB = "/var/tmp/32g/sc-02-data-tree-d.dat"
64GiB = "/var/tmp/64g/sc-02-data-tree-d.dat"
````

### [[processors.{stage_name}]]

This is the configuration group used to configure external executors.

Currently `{stage_name}` could be one of the following.

- `tree_d` for generation phase of Tree D
- `pc1` for the PreCommit1 phase
- `pc2` for the PreCommit2 phase
- `c2`: for Commit2 phase
- `transfer`: used to customize the transfer method between local data and persistent data storage

Each such configuration group means that an external executor of the corresponding sealing phase will be started. The optional configuration items include:

````
[[processors.pc1]]
# Custom external executor executable file path, optional, string type
# By default, the executable file path corresponding to the main process will be used
# bin = "./dist/bin/venus-worker-plugin-pc1"

> # Customize the parameters of the external actuator, optional items, string array type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Customize the parameters of the external (executor|processor), (optional item|optional), string array type
```
酌情修改

Author: 收到。👍

- 2 `pc2` external executors, each with 8 cores, each using a GPU
- 1 `c2` external executor, allocated 8 cores, using a GPU
- 1 `tree_d` external executor with 6 cores allocated

#### Special configuration example

##### 1. Using user-defined closed source, algorithmically optimized c2 external executor

````toml
[[processors.c2]]
bin=/usr/local/bin/venus-worker-c2-optimized
cgroup.cpuset = "40-47"
envs = { CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES = "2,3" }
````

##### 2. c2 external executor using outsourced mode (remote computation)

````toml
[[processors.c2]]
bin=/usr/local/bin/venus-worker-c2-outsource
args = ["--url", "/ip4/apis.filecoin.io/tcp/10086/https", "--timeout", "10s"]
envs = { LICENCE_PATH = "/var/tmp/c2.licence.dev" }
````

##### 3. Use CPU mode to make up for pc2 computing power when GPU is lacking

````toml
[[processors.pc2]]
cgroup.cpuset = "8-11,24-27"
envs = { FIL_PROOFS_USE_GPU_COLUMN_BUILDER = "1", FIL_PROOFS_USE_GPU_TREE_BUILDER = "1", CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES = "0" }

[[processors.pc2]]
cgroup.cpuset = "20-23,36-45"
````

#### 4. Under the optimal planning, the total amount of pc1 is odd and cannot be divided equally

````toml

> [processors.limit]

Reviewer: 旧的
```suggestion
[processors.limitation.concurrent]
```

Author: 哇，原来github还有这个功能？厉害。。
